1. End-game is about taking the high-ground defenses (baracks, towers). To do that successfully, one of the lanes has to be pushed into the high-ground before attacking the high-ground defenses, otherwise backdoor defense will be triggered. 

1.1. Thus, pushing lanes becomes the win-condition in the late-game.

1.2. Winning the late-game teamfight also becomes the win-condition in the late-game.

2. Mid-game is to create conditions conducive for pushing lanes. 

2.1. Therefore, a team must have one pusher (a hero that can push efficiently) that can push efficiently in the mid-late-game.

2.2. The pusher ideally would push away from the lane where carry farms. This forces enemy to commit resources to deal with the pusher/pushed-in lane, or they will lose tower. The more enemy commit resources (and heroes) to deal with the push, the more space will be created for carry to farm/push safely. Or if a teamfight breaks out on the other lane, and if the pushed-in lane attracts some enemy heroes, they have lesser heroes involved in the teamfight, creating a teamfight advantage on our side, in which case the pusher can quickly tp/relocate into the teamfight scene to exploit the teamfight advantage, which translates into a team-wipe, and then taking objectives without more easily.

2.3. So a good pusher must have these properties to serve the strategy laid out in Principle 2.2.:

2.3.1. (DPS condition of pusher) A pusher must have high-enough DPS to clear creep waves quickly, exerting a push pressure on lanes and towers.

2.3.1.2. (Regen condition of pusher) If a pusher casts spells to deal high DPS to creep waves, or uses HP to tank creep waves in the process, to cut down on the time going back to fountain for regen, the pusher ideally would have enough mana/hp regen to sustain the push. That means the pusher can build sustainability or buy enough regen consumables (clarities, mangoes and salves).

2.3.2. (Relocation condition of pusher) A pusher must have the ability to relocate quickly to anywhere in the map, or to any lane of choice.

2.3.2.1. (Mobility condition) A pusher ideally would have high mobility, to relocate quickly. This is sufficient to guarantee relocation condition, but not a necessary condition.

2.3.3. (Survivability/Escapability condition of pusher) A pusher must have the ability to survive and escape the lane in the case where enemies tpes in to try to gank the pusher. To escape preventively without losing much efficiency in pushing, visions will be needed around the potential places where enemies will come for ganking.

2.3.3.1. (Vision condition of pusher) This is a corollary of Principle 2.3.3..

2.3.3.2. (Mobility condition) A sufficient but not necessary condition for escapability of a pusher is mobility. 

2.3.4. From Principles 2.3, we can form a set of metrics to measure the ability to push effectively given a hero plus his itemization. The core metrics are (DPS, Relocation, Survivability). The sub-metrics represents supporting conditions for core metrics. The sub-metrics are (Regen, Mobility, Vision).

2.3.5. A hero + itemization is suitable for pushing activity, if his metrics calculated based on Principle 2.3.4. is very good. If his push-metrics is not good enough, he would have to buy items to increase his push-metrics, which incurs costs. At some point, if the cost is too high to 'repair the push-metrics', it is not efficient, it either means the hero has to farm more in the early game to build items, or he is not efficient to push much earlier. 

2.4. Higher Net Worth doesn't necessarily mean better. If the hero naturally does a job/role better, he can at least do a job effectively with less net worth, just about on par with those who cannot do the job better naturally even with more net worth. So a natural pusher hero can get more efficiency/effectiveness and achieve more objectives with the same net worth or less compared to non-natural pushers. This frees up resources for the carry to farm more items, or for supports to get more support items, which translates into teamfight advantage. The advantage means the team can teamfight much early on, gaining time advantage.

2.4.1. Each hero with his given natural abilities and talents, has a set of natural roles in which he is cost-effective/efficient in doing so. A team with better cost-efficiency will have more advantage, increasing win-probability. It is crucial to draft a team with heroes doing their own roles cost-effectively.

2.4.2. If a lineup/hero+itemization has a weakness, against a smarter team/lineup/player, the weakness will be exploited. So it is crucial in high-mmr games to cover the weaknesses first before stacking on strengths. Mistakes are then made from those who has not covered enough weaknesses, exploiting on mistakes translates into advantage which then turns into net worth and thus strength. 

2.4.3. The higher the MMR, the better the players are at exploiting the opponents' mistakes. The players also becomes smarter at covering weaknesses cost-effectively. Ideally, the player would do less actions/decisions that both cover weaknesses (defense) and augment strengths (offense) at the same time. Lower MMR players focus too much on augmenting strengths, thus exposing weaknesses to opponents.

2.4.3.1. Offense > Defense => Low MMR. (Common)
2.4.3.2. Defense > Offense => Low MMR. Even though this itemization exposes less weaknesses, but it also has less ability to exploit opponents' weaknesses. 
2.4.3.3. Offense = Defense => Very high MMR, Immortal. If an itemization satisfies both offense and defense qualities in equal strength, we say that the itemization synergizes with the Hero.

2.5. If a hero/lineup/itemization weakness is there, after large number of games, the weakness is going to manifest. It is already real even if the weakness exists in theory. This thinking is useful in errors prevention. 

2.5.1. Examples: if Enchantress is playing against Windranger, the windranger can ulti Enchantress after level 6, and it becomes more deadly when the Windranger gets more damage items, aghanims (which allows three times windrun), and invisibility at level 20. Let's evaluate the effectiveness of different potential itemizations against windranger: 

Ghost-scepter: this is too defensive at this cost, because it can prevent enchantress from being offensive, and it makes enchantress more susceptible to magical damage by other enemies. (not good)

Dragon-lance: the idea is to hit windranger before windranger can hit enchantress in teamfight. Longer attack range means higher impetus damage. This is sub-optimal because windranger can windrun and close-in the range, so the enchantress impetus deals less or no damage at all. This is essential in teamfights where windranger cannot focus you immediately, or has committed spells on other teammates. This is only conditionally useful in teamfight, but not useful in 1v1 counter-ganking. Dragon-lance is essential as an offensive, and adds a bit of HP, but is not very defensive enough if getting focused.

Force-staff: when windranger ulti enchantress, force-staff myself away to get outside windranger attack range. This is useful in both 1v1 counter-ganking and teamfight, and it builds into hurricane pike with dragon-lance. But force-staff is not offensive enough, because it doesn't deal enough damage. This is a defensive item. It may help escapability and survivability, and can help teammates, but provides less DPS, so if getting force-staff first may result in less GPM, if enchantress needs to carry the game.

Rod of Atos: when encounter windranger, even if windranger ulti enchantress, before windranger purchases bkb/linken, enchantress can root windranger at a range as a preventive measure. If a windranger is rooted, enchantress can turn on heal and simply walks away easily without harm. Over the duration of the root, the enchantress would have healed much of his HP back. In teamfight sceneario, rooted windranger can mean a marked target for teammates to kill. Even if windranger gets invisibility, once rooted, is equivalent of getting stunned + dusted. Rod of Atos provides about 20 int and 10 other stats, increasing overall metrics (mana pool, attack damage, magical resistance, attack speed, HP), giving more survivability in teamfight and 1v1 situations. This is both offensive and defensive. This can be used even when enchatress is silenced! With rod of atos, enchantress can teamfight effectively very early on to get objectives, and take map-control, which restricts windranger mid-game farming patterns.

Enchantress should build Rod of Atos first, and joins teamfight to take objectives. This creates space for carries and pushers to split-push or split-farm. Then plants wards and dewards in the enemies side of map. After that, force-staff first, and then ultimately hurricane pike. Alternatively, Enchantress can buy mekansm to join teamfights. Enemies would have a hard time killing enchantress the mekansm carrier. The build is Rod of Atos + Hurricane-Pike + (bkb, linken-sphere, skadi, pipe, heart, Aghanim, Moon Shard, mkb, mjolnir).

Hand of midas is not good in most cases, because it doesn't add to any of the metric except attack speed and GPM. The return on investment can only be realized if the game drags into the late-game.

Enchantress is not a natural pusher/farmer, he is also a pseudo-carry, so enchantress shouldn't farm too much without participating in teamfights early on, neither should enchantress push on his own. Enchantress is better as a ganker and teamfighter, and should capitalize on these roles early on.

2.6. Offlane is supposed to create space for carry in the mid-game. So if an offlane plays too greedily like a core, it is not optimal as it would take away the already scarce space from the carry, and results in disadvantageous teamfight in the midgame. It may work in lower-MMR games where players are less efficient in exploiting mistakes, it wouldn't work in higher-MMR games. Offlane should farm teamfight-oriented items in the early game, and then joins mid solo hero and another support ganker to teamfight/gank in the mid-game.

3. Laning-stage (early-game) has two objectives: net worth, opening up map-controls for mid-game. To control the map is to control where enemies will be going/farming/fighting, thereby impedes their growth in net worth. This starts with opening-up visions. Opening-up visions means taking tier-1 towers and installing visions around lanes, chokepoints, tier-2 towers and farming areas. To do those successfully, fights will be forced around those places when there's a fight-advantage. To fight/gank successfully, items becomes important. Choosing items that will help increase fight-advantage becomes essential for roles suited for fighting mid-game. To prepare for mid-game fights, gaining enough items from early-game becomes important. 

3.1. Some heroes (gankers and supporters) work better by joining fights in the mid game, while others (carries) only participating fights in the late game. Carries need to farm lots of items early to mid game, while gankers farm in the early game and fight in the mid game. Supporters farm the least, and gain net worth from mostly fighting. This means, the last hits ability of carry needs to be restricted in the early game. The laning-stage meta is such that the two offlanes use spells to trade damage with supporters and carry in the enemy safe lane, while each of them need to prioritize on last-hits and denies. The laning objective is to force enemies out of lane and then prioritize on last-hits and denies. Around 5 min, place a ward at the river to prevent a gank coming from mid level 6 hero.

3.2. Offlane strategy: One way to force enemy out of lane is by out-regen + out-damage them. This is called 'zoning out enemy'. In early levels, getting more experience means having better spell, resulting in more damage or regen. So focusing on denies becomes the key. Sometimes the enemy support will pull neutral creeps to deny offlane experience. In low-mmr games, early deward the side camp is good, but high-mmr games, it forces the enemy to deward, by spending $100 on sentry, dewarding earns $70, almost cost-effective. That means ward-blocking the side camp sub-optimal in high-mmr games.

3.2.1. To deny better in the early levels, having more attack damage is important. Ideally, we want to pick starting items that can buff up HP, mana/hp regen, and attack damage. 

3.2.2. If enemy support pull creeps to side camp, since dota2 is a balancing game, what support gains as experience and gold, will present an opportunity for an equal retaliation. We must recognize such opportunity and exploit it to achieve the equilibrium/balance. The side pull results in our creeps pushing in to their tower and our creeps can deal some damage to their carry. We must maximize the damage dealt by the creeps onto their carry, forcing them to spend the gold earned from support to buy regen for carry. We may lose some experience of one or two creeps, but if it's pulling one creep wave, the resulting creep line will be pushed towards our tower, which we can gain our experience back near our tower easily, this is where the balance lies. Also, pushing in creeps allows us to get bounty rune easily. And towers damage will make carry last-hitting difficult under tower, resulting in less CS. If the carry has little hp left, the support wouldn't dare to pull again, or the carry will hurt. Example: as offlane enchantress, the response to enemy support's pulling, is by tanking tower hits (using heal) and attack their carry. The tower will hit enchantress which the regen can cover. The creeps won't be destroyed by the tower, so they will continue attacking carry. I will spend about 100+ mana, which is restored by a mango, which is equivalent to $70 in cost. But the enemy will lose about 200+ hp, which is restored by two tangos costing $60.

4. An area is said to be controlled, if the enemy cannot go to there farming alone, or the lone hero will risk being ganked. Map-control relies on two components: ease of access by our heroes, and difference in visions. Ease of access means once an enemy appears in that contolled area, my heroes can quickly relocate there to gank. Difference in visions means my area in vision minus their area in vision. If this difference is positive for a region, we have a vision advantage, resulting in information assymmetry. Information assymmetry means I can control when to take fight on our terms when the conditions are right to win the fight, and it also results in better positioning (if the players know to exploit vision --- this ability is weak in low-MMR, so the advantage which the vision adds is less than that in high-MMR games).

4.1. To control an area, first take the nearest tower/shrine, then install vision and deward. To avoid letting enemies know that I'm dewarding, don't deward sentries. But deward the observer ward if possible. In high mmr-games, if smoke ward, don't deward their observer ward, so the enemies wouldn't even know that I've planted the ward in their place! But in low-mmr games, if smoke ward, I can deward their observer ward, because low-mmr players wouldn't try to deward my wards. In low-mmr games, ward at the tier1 ward places, but in high-mmr games, it's better to ward at the tier2 ward places to avoid getting dewarded.

4.2. Tier1 ward places typically is the highest point in the area which gives the maximum vision coverage, but they are easily dewarded in most games. Tier2 wards are at the chokepoints instead, typically gives a smaller coverage of vision, but can give key information to how enemies are relocating. Tier2 wards also get dewarded less frequently.

5. (The Role of Tower): 1) Tower gives vision, 2) Tower represents a TP point, reinforcing defense from enemy, 3) Tower is like a big creep, has its own creep-agro, 4) Tower can be fortified, which can increase its own defense. So a tower represents a stronghold of defense. 5) Tower is also a TP point for launching attacks. By having Tier 1 tower up, I can tp there and start attacking from there, traveling less distance, forming offense faster. By removing it, it removes vision, tp point, and other offensive & defensive capabilities of enemy in that area. This gives map control around that space where tower was.

6. The strategy of DotA, in essence: Map Control -> Outfarm opponent -> Win Teamfight.

7. Jenkins said, Dota is a game of mistakes. 

8. Strategy: Ganking > Split-pushing > 5-Man Groupup > Ganking.

9. Questions to ask: If Dota is a game of mistakes, then it becomes crucial to know when mistakes arises, whether they are made by the opponents or allies. It also becomes crucial to know what to do with it. 1) How do I know if someone, whether it be ally or enemy, has made a mistake? 2) How do I know what to do with it? 3) Asking the previous two questions presupposes there exists right or wrong actions. How do I know if this assumption is true? How to test this assumption?

10. If Dota is a game of balance, that is, if an enemy chooses an action for the purpose of gaining an advantage, such action will (probably) present an opportunity for an equal retaliation. We must recognize such opportunity and exploit it to achieve the equilibrium/balance. So if two sides are perfect, the game is 50-50 and thus balanced. The balance lies in Nash Equilibrium. Every action has its strengths and weaknesses. If an action is chosen, it must be for its strengths. So a good or right kind of actions would be to exploit the weaknesses resulting from actions chosen by enemy. The weakness is then turned into their disadvantage, which cancels their advantage gained from their chosen action, achieving balance. 

To answer back the question of how do I know if they have made a mistake: their right actions would be to exploit our weaknesses. If they don't do that, they are making a mistake, because they are not doing the balancing act. So we should ask: What are our weaknesses? What should they do to exploit our weaknesses? Are they doing what they should do to exploit our weaknesses?

But asking this question doesn't invite answers on what we should do exactly, we would just know that they have made a mistake, and we can identify the mistake. 

11. BSJ summarized the general itemization for carries to solo-carry the game:
a) first, an item to clear waves fast. Example, Mjolnir, Maelstrom, Battlefury, Radiance, etc. For some heroes like Sven, that item is attack speed because he already has cleave. For some others that have nukes, that item is mana-regeneration. The carry must flash-farm, clear creep waves and clear neutral camps fast enough, while pushing the lane faster. This is crucial because it lets carries apply pressure in the form of pushing lanes. Pushing lanes reveal information about enemies. If the enemy tps to it, it means he can't be at another part of the map at that time, so we can take advantage of that and fight at other lanes. If the enemy doesn't show up, it means they are either neutral-farming, or smoking, so we should back off abit until more information is revealed. If enemies are all at other parts of the map, we can take this tower safely. Pushing lane also forces them to react to it, otherwise the tower takes damage from the pushed lane. This is especially important when the lane has catapults.

b) then, an item for survivability. Manta Style, BKB, Linken Sphere, etc. So the carry can push deep into enemy territory and be survivable when enemies react to gank him. This applies a lot of pressure to enemy.

c) then an item to guarantee solo kill. Abbysal Blade, Daedelus, MKB, etc. So when the carry pushes deep, not only he's not easily stopped or killed (because he is survivable), if enemy brings one hero to defend the push, he risks getting solo-killed by the carry! One hero is not enough to defend, so more heroes need to be brought there to stop the push, thereby creating a lot of space.

d) finally an item to go high-ground, something like Aegis, Satanic, etc. 

This four itemization principles do not just apply to cores, but this is especially crucial to cores.

Use this framework to analyze carry potential of heroes:
Sven: MOM or Midas (for attack speed required by flash-farming), Echo Saber (more attack speed, and strength), Aghanim Scepter (solo-kill threat, more survivability), Silver Edge (survivability), BKB (survivability, high-ground), Abbysal Blade (more survivability and solo-kill threat).

Windranger: Linken Sphere (survivability + flash-farm), MKB (solo-kill threat), Blink (solo-kill threat), BKB (surivivability), Deadelus (solo-kill threat)

Lycan: Necronomicon (flash-farm, solo-kill), Assault Cuirass (survivability), BKB (survivability), Abbysal Blade (solo-kill)

12. How I got from 900 MMR to 1500 MMR (+600 MMR) in two weeks:
a) restrict my hero pool such that in which:
a.1) I have at least about 50% recent winrate on each hero. (Don't play Dazzle, Bristleback, Spectre, because my winrate on them is low!)
a.2) For each position I have at least 3 heroes to choose from.
a.3) a few uncommon heroes should be included (in case some more common heroes are banned or picked), such as Lycan.

b) Last pick.

c) Pick for the position that is left to pick. For example, if we don't have position 3, pick 3, don't pick 1.

d) If multiple choices exist for a position based on my hero pool, pick the one that most counters the enemies (having more greens on enemy side, at the Dota Plus suggestion).

e) Go to correct lane based on my position.

f) Lane correctly: decide if I'm laning aggressively, normally, or cheesing.

g) Itemize correctly, that solves the most important issues when trying to play my role effectively.

h) Push based on correct timing (catapult), and fight based on my power spike.

i) if safe choices exist on whether to farm jungle or push, always go for push.

j) position correctly

k) take space or create space based on my position

l) do my job well

m) soft-committing if I'm position 1 or 2. Position 3, 4, 5 should hard commit, and itemize accordingly.

Using this strategy, I'm able to climb quickly.

If I want to expand my hero pool, or train a particular hero, I should do that in Normal Games. Based on my observation, I would get matched with players of, on average, around my Ranked MMR in Normal games, but with more variance (e.g., there's a chance of getting matched with Legend when I'm Guardian, but the average MMR on both sides are correct). That way I can expose myself to playstyles/mistakes from significantly lower or higher than my MMR. If I can win 3 games in a row, that means assuming 3-streak-probability is 1/8, then my winrate is 0.5. That is, I have 0.875 chance (7/8 prob) to be correct when I say my winrate is at least 50%. That further means my hero is well-trained at this MMR. My goal is to train it to 50%, then only play this hero when the draft calls for it, that way I guarantee my winrate for that hero to be above 50%.

Of course, sometimes even when I pick and play according to above strategy, I still lose (e.g., I picked Ogre Magi and have all greens on allies and enemies, and I even won offlane and took their safelane tower at 5min, but enemy midlane Legion stomping our mid Invoker, and snowballing from there until we lose, this is unpreventible, but it occurs like 1/10 times when I pick and play correctly). We have to acknowledge that there are games where we have no control over even if we do everything correctly. But on an equal chance, we could also have this stomping player on our side. So in the long run, this shouldn't affect our general winrate.

On the flip side, when I played according to the strategy laid out above, we tend to have easier game, at least good early game, and we tend to win 7/10 times. When I don't do that, I notice that we would have harder games, and tend to lose lanes or lose games 7/10 times. 

13. I have two system of meta-learning:
13.1. Exploit the guaranteed strategy in Ranked games, until the game plateaus (winning only 2 out of 4 games),then  Explore for guaranteed strategy in Normal games. Guaranteed Strategy is found when I have 3-win-streak in Normal Games.

13.2. Exploit the guaranteed strategy in Ranked games, until the game plateaus, then Explore for guaranteed strategy, until I win only 1 or less out of 4 games, I fall back to Exploiting previous guaranteed strategy until I win back my previous MMR before the exploring phase. All exploiting and exploring are done in Ranked games. 

13.3. Definitions of effectiveness of strategy by winrate:

Out of 4 games,
win 3 or 4 games => effective strategy
win 2 games => non-losing strategy
win 1 or 0 games => losing strategy

13.4. I think the best meta-learning strategy is:
By default, performing "Exploit and Explore in Ranked" mode, Explore whenever my game plateaus (winning 2 games out of 4), and Exploit whenever I'm losing 3 games out of 4 games. 

If I'm consistently losing 3 games out of 4 games even in Exploit mode, that means my previous strategy is losing. So I go into "Exploit in Ranked, Explore in Normal" mode, so that I can explore for no cost in MMR. I exit this mode when I've found a strategy that wins 3 games in a row in Normal games.

14. Meta-Learning:

At a given Meta, the optimal strategy is to learn what hero is overpowered at different MMR ranges (winrate is higher than 66.6% whether it's on allied or enemy side), and exploit that to gain MMR. Then as MMR increases, an overpowered hero gets countered (winrate drops to around 50% or even below that), and that gives us the chance to learn how to counter that overpowered hero. 

If a hero is overpowered at an MMR range, that means it is already proven to win easily at that bracket because it is less countered, so it can be used to gain MMR. Then the winrate going down signaling that the hero is getting countered, and we can learn from that. We stop exploiting the hero when we feel that the hero is not overpowered, and we know how to counter that hero. We also learn how to have the best synergy with that hero. In future, we only pick Sven when it is known to be a good game/draft for Sven. If enemy picks Sven, we know how to counter it. If ally picks Sven, we also know what to do to give Sven the game of his life.

Example: at 1260 MMR, I feel that Sven is overpowered when he gets Aghanim Scepter. So I first pick and spam it. Until 1500 MMR, Sven gets countered heavily, and I've learned how to use and counter Sven. In this process, I gained about 200 MMR (equivalent of 7 win-streak gain) as well as deeper knowledge about Sven and other heroes. Now I can repeat this on Faceless Void, because I feel that he is overpowered.

After doing this process many times for about 5 different overpowering heroes (each gaining me 200 MMR), I can gain 1000 MMR and learning deeper knowledge about dota. I can even get into Archon rank! This balances the exploitation vs exploration tradeoff very well, and it gains MMR and learns different heroes very efficiently. And at every MMR bracket, it gives us the direction for learning (works like gradient in machine learning.)

15. Sven experiment outcome:
The Sven is overpowered until MMR=1500, where he starts getting countered by BKBs, Linken, Lotus Orb, some dodging spells, and counter-initiation stuns (e.g. Earthshaker, Tidehunter, Faceless Void, etc.). Sven also relies very heavily on BKB to fight effectively, so his timing is delayed. So I learned that Sven can be countered, even though he farms very fast!

16. A thorough analysis of my current hero pool based on BSJ's solo carry criteria.

score criteria:
wave-clear: 
0* = just like normal creep
1* = slowly pushing the wave due to aura
2* = attacking creeps with more damage, having more units. (Bane elementals, early Phantom Lancer, Lycan wolves with aura, Necronomicon, enchanted creep, including early Drow Ranger, Venomancer's wards)
3* = can damage an area of creeps, AOE effect, but the damage is not high enough to clear creep in one shot. Having to spend some mana. If cleaving, the attack speed is slow. (Windranger powershot, Sven's cleave, Shadow Shaman electric shock, most aoe nukes.)
4* = AOE damage, spammable (low cd, low mana), but still takes a few seconds to clear waves. (Medusa splitshot, Viper's nethertoxin, Sven's cleave with attack speed, etc.) 
5* = Can one-shot the whole creep wave, low mana, low cd. (Mjolnir, farmed carries).

survivability:
0* = very squishy, no escape mechanism, slow movement speed. (Sniper), Will certainly die if ganked by one strong hero or two weak heroes, sometimes even just one weak hero.
1* = can stun enemy and run. (Sven) Takes one strong and one weak heroes to kill. Can sometimes survive if HP is high enough.
2* = can stun enemy and run quickly, or can evade attacks (Windranger, Sven with warpath)
, takes one strong and one weak hero to kill, can sometimes survive even if HP is low.
3* = can run very quickly or has defensive tanking spell (heal, magic resistance, armor, increased HP, status resistance), or can escape instantly (can be countered, such as invisibility). Usually with 3*, a hero can die when ganked by one strong + two weak heroes.
4* = strong tanking ability, takes many spells and damage to kill. Can easily escape two strong heroes gank, or one strong + 3 weak heroes gank. (Windranger with Linken + BKB, Sven with Satanic + BKB + Aghanim, Viper with Heart + Assault + Pipe, Medusa with Manta Style + Skadi, Anti-Mage with Manta Style).
5* =  can tank the whole enemy's team damage and survive very long. (Farmed Bristleback, farmed Medusa, farmed Anti-Mage, etc.)

Solo-kill:
0* = Can't kill alone.
1* = Can't kill alone, but sometimes, can kill alone with the right spell or by chance.
2* = Can severely damage one or more heroes (can harass), when enemy gets low enough, can kill (Medusa with Mystic Snake, Lion, Axe, Skywrath, etc.).
3* = Can quickly kill a hero from full HP, with other hero assisting (usually stuns or slows), because the target can still escape. Or if the target's HP is half or make a positioning mistake, can quickly kill him without needing any help (Windranger with MKB, Lycan's charge, Anti-Mage with Manta Style, etc.).
4* = Can quickly solo-kill a single hero from full HP, guaranteed in most cases. (Windranger with MKB + Blink, Viper with ulti and nethertoxin, Anti-Mage with Abbysal Blade, Shadow Fiend with Blink + Euls, Sven with Aghanim + BKB + ulti + attack speed).
5* = Can quickly solo-kill multiple heroes (Faceless Void's Chrono with damage items, Sven with Daedelus + Aghanim, Medusa with rapier, etc.)

High-ground:
0* = low survivability, low kill potential (most supports)
1* = low survivability, good damage (some supports with long range damage nukes)
2* = okay survivability, good damage (sniper with hurricane pike)
3* = high survivability, good damage.
4* = high survivability, 4* kill potential
5* =  5* survivability, 5* kill potential

16.1. Windranger:
wave-clear: 3*, long-range, low cd nuke, good damage but not enough to clear the whole wave (although can secure range creep), cannot clear catapult, uses a lot of mana if spammed. Requires damage item/mana regeneration to be 4*, maelstrom makes her 5*. She is not yet the definition of flash farm, but can definitely apply good pushing power if needed.
survivability: 3*, windrun is short on CD, 100% evasion, increased movement speed helps in escaping, but she doesn't have free movement (so can be blocked by Earthshaker fissure), can be countered by True Strike, doesn't make her survivable through magic damage and disables. At level 25, she can go invisiable, makes her survivability 4*. This typically means she can survive 2-man gank usually if enemy has only one disable, but not 3-man gank, in late-game with invisibility she can survive 3-man gank usually. Linken Sphere/BKB/Aghanim makes her survivable 4*, having more than two of these items makes her 5* (extremely hard to kill).
Solo-kill potential: without focus fire, this is 1*. Otherwise 2*, using focus fire. Once hitting 6, if enemy is alone, has no escape, no heal, and is not tanky, she can solo-kill the lone hero. She needs a lot of conditions for a successful solo-kill with only just phase boots. If she has damage-item like MKB, this gives 3*. The problem is she still has to walk up and ulti, giving enemy some reaction time to escape. It is also reliant on good shackleshot to increase ulti's damage. If enemy has escape or stun, she usually cannot kill the enemy. She needs another reliable disable/initiation. If she has blink dagger or invisibility, she is now 4* kill potential. She's not 5* because her damage is single-target, and can be countered by Linken Sphere, Lotus Orb, Blademail, etc. and some spells, unless she has too high burst damage like Daedelus to blow up supports.
High-Ground potential: 2* if only one survivable item, 3* if having two survivable items, 4* if having tank item (heart, satanic, shiva, skadi, etc.) or Cheese, 5* if having aegis.

So at level 6 without any core item, Windranger's solo carry profile is 3/3/2/2, score is 2.5 out of 5. So she's quite average in terms of solo carry potential. If she has maelstrom + blink, her profile becomes 4/3/3/2 = 12, which is strong, but not overpowered. If she gets another Linken or BKB, her profile becomes 4/4/3/2 or 4/3/4/2 (if MKB), score = 13, which is even stronger. If she gets heart, her profile becomes 4/4/4/4, score=16, overpowered. A typical Windranger built of Phase, Maelstrom, Blink, BKB, Linken, MKB has profile 4/5/4/3 = 16 (overpowered).

The question is also about how fast can she get to a profile score of > 12 faster than any other hero. Windranger can get to score 12 by 23 min (phase boots + MKB or Phase + Maelstrom + MKB).

16.2. Anti-Mage:
wave-clear: 0*. If has battlefury, 4*. If has battlefury + yasha, 5*
Survivability: 2* with either Counterspell or Blink, 3* with counterspell and blink. 4* with Manta Style, 5* with Linken Sphere or BKB.
Solo-Kill: 1* if no mana void, but only mana burn. 2* if mana-void. 3* if manta-style, 4* if having Basher, 5* if having Abbysal Blade.
High-ground potential: 3*, 4* with Skadi or Heart (after all other items), 5* if aegis or cheese.

Anti-Mage lvl 6 profile: 0/3/2/3 = 8 (weak, can screw up early game). However, if he gets battlefury, his profile now becomes 4/3/2/3 = 12, which is overpowered with the pushing ability. He can get to 13 by 22 min (power treads + Battlefury). So here we conclude that Anti-Mage can solo-carry game if he has good early game and can get battlefury by 20 min.

16.3. Sven:
wave-clear: 3* with cleave, 4* with attack speed item (MOM, Echo Saber, Midas etc.), 5* with daedelus.
Survivability: 2* with warpath, 3* with BKB or shadow blade/silver edge, 4* with Aghanim + BKB/shadow blade, 5* with Satanic/Cheese + 4* survivability items.
Solo-kill: 2* with ulti, 3* with ulti + MOM, 4* with Aghanim Scepter, 5* with Daedelus.
High-Ground: same as survivability.

Sven level 6 profile with boots + MOM is 4/2/3/2 = 11. He can get to the score of 13 with item build Power Treads, MOM, Echo Saber, BKB by 23 min.

16.4. Enchantress:
wave-clear: 0*, 2* if having neutral creep that can push, 3* if having maelstrom, 4* if maelstrom + some attack speed, 5* if Mjolnir.
Survivability: 2* if max heal, 3* if max heal + untouchable, 4* if having one tank item (pipe, aeon disk, etc.), or Linken/BKB/aghanim/Hurricane Pike, 5* if having two tanky items. Bloodstone is a tank item.
Solo-kill: 2* if max Impetus, 3* if Dragon Lance, 4* = 3* + attack speed item (Moonshard, Bloodthorn etc.), 5* = 4* + Damage item.
High-ground: survivability score-1, 5* if having three tanky items.

Enchantress at level 6 has profile 0/2/2/1 = 5, very weak solo carry potential. At min 23, she can have power treads + Maelstrom + dragon lance = 3/3/3/2 = 11 or at min 21, she can have power treads + Mjolnir = 5/3/2/2 = 12. 

With built 1 (PT, Maelstrom, Dragon Lance), her next item is either Mjolnir or Hurricane Pike, with scores 14 and 13 for each case respectively by about 29~30 min. Built 1 gives more options, if need to survive better and fight early, get Hurricane Pike, if survivability is not a problem, get Mjolnir.

With built 2 (PT, Mjolnir), her next item is Hurricane Pike by 30 min, with the score of 16. Usually with this built, she passes the score of 13 at min 25.

This means Enchantress's solo carry potential is weaker, because her potential grows slower.

16.5 Medusa:
wave-clear: 2*, 3* with Mystic Snake, 4* with attack speed or damage or one big stats item, 5* with attack speed and damage.
Survivability: 2* with max shield, 3* with ulti, 4* with one stats item (manta style, skadi, Linken Sphere, Hurricane Pike etc.), 5* with two stats item or one stats + BKB, or simply having cheese/aegis.
Solo-kill: 2*, enough to harass. With only skadi, 3*. with Skadi + attack speed or damage, 4*. Ulti doesn't give solo-kill potential, because enemy can disengage easily.
high-ground: same as survivability.

Medusa lvl 6 profile is 3/3/2/3 =  11. With power treads + manta style + Demon Edge at min 22 or yasha + Skadi, her profile becomes 4/4/3/4 =  15. So she's very strong. But she has obvious counters (Anti-Mage, early Push lineup, etc.).

16.6. Viper:
wave-clear: 4*, long range, low cd, low mana cost, good AOE, enough damage to clear whole wave, clear wave fast enough, can be used to clear camps. 5* if having maelstrom/mjolnir.

survivability: 2* with passive (magic resistance), it works like blademail, but doesn't allow directly escape from ganks. 3* if getting mobility item (shadow blade, force staff), or one defensive item (bkb, aeon disk, linken) or one tank item, 4* if getting 2 3* items, 5* if getting 3 3* survivability items.

solo-kill: 2* with nethertoxin and orbs, 3* with ulti (enemy can still escape if done correctly), 4* with shadow blade or rod of atos or Hex.

high-ground: same as survivability.

Viper lvl 6 profile is 4/2/3/2 = 11. Viper can get Phase Boots + Shadow Blade + Yasha at min 20, with profile 4/3/4/3 = 14. The playstyle is ganking their solo farmers, or remove one hero from their teamfight (pickoff). Another caster built is go for Power Treads + Force staff into Hurricane Pike + Hood of Defiance if needed, then go for aether lens + Aghanim Scepter. At min 20, Viper can have PT + Hurricane Pike + Hood of Defiance, this makes his profile 4/3/3/3 = 13, quite good. The idea is to siege highground using his ult, poison attack and Nethertoxin.

17. Some Medusa's built found from Reddit:
Phase or Treads, Yasha, Morbid Mask, Crit/MKB, Skadi or Damage depending on whether I need to be a tank or not.

18. Viper should not overextend when he doesn't have any survivability item; Viper is just slightly tankier than most heroes, and that's it. He's not survivable when ganked by two heroes. So Viper should use spells when hitting powerspike, attack from range, and disengage and farm when such opportunities do not present. Viper is not a tank when he starts out in the early-mid game. He is more of a hero who can push waves and flash farm neutrals, strong ganker, teamfight pickoff from the edge of teamfight due to his attack range, and is slightly tankier than other similar heroes of the same role (e.g. Sniper).

19. Windranger if go for maelstrom can delay her farm. Her core items should be MKB, Blink, BKB, Linken if needed. Maelstrom is either an early-mid game farming item, or counter illusions, so it is bought situationally. In all cases, if windranger gets fast MKB and blink, the game ends. I can perhaps try Windranger with boots + Javelin + blink, and go make huge plays to create space and map control. Then MKB, BKB, gg. To do this, go mid, focus on farming, spam powershots, boots straight to Javelin. With Javelin, I can gank and farm heroes. The problem with this is the mana issues. I should think about cheap and efficient ways of regenerating and using mana to spam powershots for last hitting and pushing waves.

20. Windranger: MKB vs Orchid
MKB costs 4800+, at 400~500 GPM, have to farm 10~12 min for it. Gives a lot more damage (with both physical and magical damage), and a bit harder to build up because of the demon edge.
Orchid costs 3400+, requires about 7~9 min of farm to get it. It gives a lot of mana regen and mana (good for spamming powershots), gives 40% of damage compared to MKB, and gives an active to silence enemy so they can't run away. Damage wise, say attacking for 3 seconds with focus fire, using Orchid's soul burn, 30% of damage received during silence will be added as bonus magical damage, which means, she will deal about 1000 damage (330 DPS) * 130% = 1300 damage. At 9 min, a typical hero's health is about 1000, so 1300 is definitely enough to kill. Whereas using MKB, her DPS is about 600, which will deal about 1900 damage. At 12 min, a typical hero's health is about 1200, so 1900 damage is sufficient. 

If I use Orchid, I can guarantee enemy from using spells and escaping, and I can assist better, but dealing less damage. While farming for Orchid, I can save up clarities in the long run, Orchid is also easier and faster to farm. If I use MKB, I can kill enemy faster, but I will have to take more time to farm, and I would have mana issues before that in the farming phase, MKB also has this larger window of time where I have to farm up Demon edge. 

Ultimately, if enemy has evasion, I should have MKB. Or, I can go for Bloodthorn to have True Strike when used as active.　

If I were to copy Pro's build, they usually go like boots, javelin, demon edge, mkb by 18 min, then usually BKB or Aghs by 25min. Then just buy whatever you need, blink, Linken, Boots of Speed, etc.

21. Connecting the dots...

BSJ's solo carry criteria = wave clear + survivability + solo-kill + highground

BSJ's deadlane theory: my offlane + opponent safelane is about pressure (PRESSURE lane), my safelane + opponent offlane is about relieving pressure (DEPRESSURE lane), midlane has to be pushed out aways. If I'm strong & aggressive, I should just play between offlane & midlane. If I'm weak, I should stay at safelane and just relieving pressure. Don't solo-hit the T2 midlane tower, it's too dangerous because of its location (being close to anywhere on the map) and its ability to multishot glyph.

BSJ's aggression theory: for Position 2,3,4,5,  they are creating space for Position 1 to farm. They should play the map where it removes enemy's ability to farm and force enemy to fight, and they should build items that help them fight and be aggressive.

Cookie's Map Theory:
The carry should take the safest farm (and also apply pressure when it is safe to do so). He should put his teammates between Enemies and him. This answers where a carry should be and what he should do. That also means I'm almost always furthest away from enemies. If I do that, then at higher MMR my teammates will play away from me, so they will most probably fighting enemies. If I'm a hero that should create space, I should play towards enemies (objectives).

Blitz's Wave Shoving: Shove midlane + one side lane. This gives enough information, sometimes forces them to use TP, and splits enemies up, giving us huge opportunities for great plays.

Show's hero attributes theory: at the most fundamental level, a hero has four (or more) attributes (or two or more mutually opposing attributes dualities):
1st Duality (Trading) = Damage vs Tankiness
2nd Duality (Condition) = Disable vs Mobility
3rd Duality (Information) = Signal vs Noise
4th Duality (Tempo) = Energy (Regen, Cooldown, Degen, etc.)
5th Duality (Resources) = Fight vs Farm
6th Duality (Map) = Space vs Time

A hero is broken if on many attributes he is far above average. A hero is broken because he is not easily countered, so he can do his job very well, even better than his average game, so he creates this advantage. In ranked solo-queues, we can't make sure everyone drafts and plays perfectly, so often we have allies that are drafted and played at a disadvantage, same goes to opponents. It makes it more important for us to draft and play at an advantage so as to offset as much disadvantage as possible, if enemies are not doing that, they will have more weakness than us. A higher MMR will know how to exploit weakness better, so higher MMR also knows how to neutralize their weakness with strengths.

In drafting, we always last pick.

Question 1: what role is left for us to play?
Question 2: Out of Damage, Tankiness, Disables, Mobility, what do we still lack against opponents? (Pick 2)
Question 3: what hero (from our hero pool) counters them as well as filling up what we lack?
Question 4: during the gameplay, what will hinder me from doing my job properly? What items solve those issues?

Quick tip: Last pick, pick for the role, pick the hero that counters the most enemies.

In drafting phase, if time is up, but our allies haven't yet picked, in order to avoid getting randommed, I must pick. Pick order should be supports >- Offlaner, Carry -> Midlane. I usually won't pick in the first pick phase, in 2nd pick phase, I will only consider offlaner or carry if any of these are lacking, or pick support if both roles are already fulfilled.

In short: I should play to the correct role, picking hero that can neutralize our deficiency, as well as counter enemies. Then inside game I should itemize according to our fight vs farm orientation, as well as solving most pressing issues that could hinder me from doing my job properly. And, most importantly, I should do my job properly, I push out the correct wave and play at the correct part of the map. Picking the right hero, buying right items, doing right actions, being at the right place at the right time. But the limiting factor is my hero pool. Out of limited hero pool, I can usually pick the right role, but I sometimes can't counter hero or neutralize our deficiency very well, so I have to resort to itemization and playstyle. Since this is my hero pool, I should be able to itemize and play to the best possible outcome.

Hero attributes theory is useful in deciding drafting, itemization and playstyle. It also explains why some meta heroes are broken.

22. I gained MMR from 1070 to 1340 by spamming Windranger offlane. My default built is boots (tranquil boots if getting harrased a lot), Linken Sphere, MKB, Blink. Some variations:

a. If I'm doing well, my teammates are doing well: boots, MKB, Blink, Boots of Travel, Abbysal Blade or Daedelus.

b. If I'm doing well, my teammates are not: boots, Linken Sphere, MKB, BKB if enemy has lots of strong disables or magical damage, otherwise straight Blink, Abbysal Blade if against enemy carries, Daedelus if against heavy tank.

c. Normal: Boots, Linken Sphere, MKB, Blink, Abbysal Blade or Daedelus

d. If I'm doing badly, teammates are doing well: Tranquil Boots, Linken Sphere, MKB, Blink

e. If all of us are doing badly: Tranquil Boots, Maelstrom, BKB. Maelstrom is good for farm and fight.

23. MMR Draft strategy:
first pick windranger. If Windranger is banned, pick Viper. If Viper is banned, pick Ogre Magi. If Ogre is banned, pick carry. When picking carry, be careful of potential counterpicks, e.g. only pick Medusa when anti-mage is banned, etc.

24. I reached 1430 MMR (Guardian V rank) by spamming Windranger Linken + MKB built! I started to get into some Crusader games. I notice that Crusader players generally have better skills, better timings, better positionings, better laning mechanics, knowing how to punish enemies better, pushing waves faster, farming faster, as well as focusing more on counters. I first picked Windranger, and opponents actively ganked and harassed me in the laning stage, and knowing the opportunity to punish and kill me few times when my pos 4 got away from lane (and I still stayed in lane). I also notice that our pos4 also gave me more farm and CS, even as far as ogre, kunkka and wraith king letting me farm, so I can get enough momentum in the mid-game. They also know how to pull and contest pull. They also gank better, and reinforce quicker when we push tower or teamfight. Our carry has even gone as far as fighting early when we're in the momentum for teamfight/push. I notice that in these games, mistakes are more exploited by opponents, so it is important to reduce our mistakes, or alternatively give ourselves some room for mistakes. Linken Sphere is better than BKB in that respect because it prevents ourselves from making positioning mistakes. BKB doesn't do that because it requires an active reaction, which sometimes can be delayed or missed due to hesitation. Whenever there's an active decision involved in the teamfight aspect, there's also a risk of hesitation. Linken prevents myself from being hesitant, and makes the gameplay positioning easy: it acts as a signal for retreat when Linken is broken. It also gives enough regen to sustain the push and gank tempo, even though my attack damage and farming speed may not be too high until I get MKB, so I should play like a spell caster before MKB.

25. Patch 7.28 rolled out, added new Hero Hoodwink. Lycan becomes strong again with Aghanim Shards that gives a wolf to one of the lanes for each wave. This increases the split-push and pickoff potential. Aura becomes global again, which makes my units strong and I can splitpush and fight more effectively because I don't need to be in the range with my units. I spammed Lycan with Necro + Aghanim Shards, I climbed from 1310 to 1460 in 3 days.

26. I notice that the meta for Lycan changes in high MMR games. The itemization meta started out with Necro rush + Aghanim Shard + Helm of the Dominator 2 and use the dominated Ancient creep to help the push. But since recent 2 days, the meta changes to skip HotD and fallback to Assault Cuirass. Then it changes again to Necro3 + Orb of Corrosion + Power Treads + AC + BKB or Abyssal Blade, with Aghanim Shard as soon as it's available. For offlane Lycan, it's about empowering team, so buying Necro3 + Vlads + Aghanim Scepter and wolfing the carry. For starting items, Quelling Blade + Sobi Mask are required, then it depends: offlane =  more HP regen and Armor (Salve, Ring of Protection), Midlane = more Mana regen = 2 x Sobi Mask, Carry = more Stats = branches, Fairie Fire.

27. According to Dota2Protracker, high MMR meta seems to favor mid-game aggressive ganks securing objectives, and anything that goes around that (carry that can survive mid-game gank easily, such as Wraith King), or mid-game annoying solo-push by survivable offlane (which also relieves the pressure that carry has against ganks). Hard Carry is not favored, because the pace is faster. Gank vs solo-push meta. Lycan falls into both Gank and solo-push playstyle, so he has the highest winrate (63%) in high MMR games. The next are Clinkz, Weaver (with Maelstrom), etc. who can both gank and solo-push very well. Mobility is very important in this patch, almost half of the strongest hero in high MMR are mobile (Puck, Dark Seer, etc.).

28. I'll do this: copy exactly the builds used by pros as of current meta. If meta changes, build changes, I'll copy that change exactly.

29. I spammed Lycan and get to MMR 1610 (Crusader I), highest 1670. If I can win 3 more games in a row, I can reach Crusader II. But right now, I'm stuck at around 1640 with 50% winrate.

30. I spammed Lycan and got 6 wins in a row. I've reached MMR 1790, Crusader II. I mostly first pick Lycan and opt to go mid, unless if there's another teammate that can go mid better, I go safelane. I almost always try to avoid offlane, because Lycan is such a bad offlane in laning stage, he can't apply strong enough aggression to enemy's carry, and he has issues with surviving the kill lane. The key to Lycan's success is in the laning stage. Lycan's chances of winning the game is high if he has a good laning stage where he can farm and hit his necrobook timing. Getting the farm is so important to the extent where more regen, armor, stats or wand are needed in order to tank up, walk up and apply creep aggro/lane control techniques, and get last hits.

In mid: buy more regen (salves, tangos, etc.), against enemy mid that just hits me (invoker, QoP, etc.) buy RoP for armor. Against nukers (zeus) buy stick. Against burst, I can try raindrop, or bracer. At min 3:50, send two wolves to deny runes. I can further try to deny bounty rune at min 5, and deny power runes at min 6. Controlling creep equilibrium on my high ground is important. I can agro pull the creeps to sideway to prevent creeps from resetting into low ground, I can also abuse that to create double wave and dive them under tower when level 6. I can try to pull the lane back to highground when it is on low ground. When the lane is on their highground, I can push out that wave using wolves, and farm side camps.

In safelane, it requires support to do his job to zone out enemy offlaner or pos 4, or pull creeps to maintain equilibrium. This relies more on teammates, so there's more ways that can go wrong. Try to get levels and last hits, and at level 4, I can buy some mana items, and go jungle, and let support take the XP in the safelane. Tell the support to soak XP and stay safe. Then at level 6, I go join my offlaner or mid to gank enemy's safelane or midlane. 

31. In several Lycan games where I lost, I concluded that these are some main reasons why I lost:

31.1. Going to the wrong lane (usually offlane) and getting zoned out or killed multiple times by their kill lane. Lycan cannot apply strong enough aggression, so he needs a babysitter against dual lane. Be careful of positioning and creep equilibrium. Sometimes pos 4 babysitter cannot do his job well enough because I'm not aggressive, so he leaves lane, leaving me vulnereable, so I'm forced to jungle, giving the enemy carry more farm and XP, increasing my difficulty in closing the game fast. Sometimes my positioning is bad, I get stunned and burst from full to zero. Solution: going to the right lane where I can get the most farm safely, usually the midlane, sometimes safelane, seldom in offlane.

32.2. Diving tower at level 6 when enemy is alone and full health. Or Diving tower when the creep wave is not under their tower, so my wolves die quickly to their tower. Or diving tower without necrobook. Even though he's alone, but his teammates can TP-in to save him while he jukes in the trees, and I'll find myself in trouble soon enough. Midlane has less trees to juke, so midlane is better for diving. Solution: Shove the wave under their tower, and only dive tower when I have necro book or at least another teammate helping or the loner has half HP, remember to switch tower agro when I find myself getting hit by tower. If enemy TP, I should back off unless I can quickly kill the loner, and kill the next one. 

32.3. Solo-diving highground for tower or lone hero. Causes me to die easily when enemy can quickly reinforce by tp or glyph, if I get killed, sometimes they can push out waves long enough before I respawn, thus dragging the game. Solution: simply push out waves under their highground, hit tower to force glyph, and backoff. I can just send my units to hit towers given that my aura is now global. In the late-game, I'm a win condition because I can splitpush and rat. I should not die.

32.3. Not buying BKB when they have chain stuns (pangolier's ulti). Solution: before BKB, I should just send my units to attack, and I just kite around at a safe distance, but be ready to attack with my main hero if there's opportunity for it. This is a form of soft-committing.

32.4. Getting dumpstered in the midlane because I don't control creep equilibrium, or pull creep at the wrong time when the creep line is already on my side. Solution: control creep line using aggro tricks. 

32.5. In the midlane, not buying enough regen or tanky items to survive right clicks or harass. Solution: buy more salves, tangos, stats, RoP, wand more than what is needed to ensure a good lane. I may hit my timing slightly slower, but I can tank up and get last hits better and die less. This will pay itself off.

32.6. In the midlane, I died to rotations. Solution: think beforehand who among their pos 4 or 5 would most likely come to gank me, and place a ward at the right location on the river. When the wave is on their high ground, farm side camps. 

32.7. Allowing enemy mid to bottle up runes and thus sustain his aggression on me or on my teammates. The game then snowballed hard from there. Solution: I should send my wolves before the runes spawn, to deny runes as many times as possible.

32.8. Fighting when the enemies are stronger at teamfighting. Solution: identify their power spikes, and avoid fighting them when they are strong. Just steal their towers. Before the game, think about all possible ways (or combos or items) that the enemies can kill me or prevent me from doing my job.


33. Before the game starts, I should ask these questions:

33.1. What are my jobs and default strategy in this game? (pushing, ratting, waveclear, ganker, farmer, teamfighting, damage dealer, backline killer, disabler, utility, healer, tanker, etc.)

33.2. Considering their default gameplay, strategy and jobs, how can they prevent me from doing my jobs (inhibit me) or threaten me? What are my strategy of gameplay and itemization against that?

33.3. Which lane should I go to?

33.4. Who should I avoid in teamfight? Who should I be careful of when they are missing? Who should I be around with? In teamfights, who should I kill/disable/damage/cast my spells on?

33.5. Who in the enemies can I inhibit or threaten? How will they solve that problem?

34. I'm on Lycan 7-win streak, reaching 1820 MMR. The last game was tough against Axe and Spectre, but we're able to win eventually by pushing. I still made the 'solo-diving highground' mistake, and died a few times. Aghanim was still quite mediocre in my opinion, teammates don't necessarily know how to use it. Shard showed its impact when the shard wolves created double waves on both side lanes that push up to highground and automatically destroyed rax, forcing Skywrath to TP defend. He even almost died to the shard wolf!

35. Sometimes from mid game at around 25 min, some enemy supports will buy survivable items such as linken, lotus orb, ghost scepter, euls, force staff etc. Killing the supports becomes harder, that's why diving highground is more dangerous, especially when I'm the win-condition through ratting. In teamfights, when I charge at the backline supports, usually there'll be other his other support teammates helping him, so I've created a situation where 2 or 3 enemies supports are dealing with just me in their backline, while the rest of my 4 teammates are engaging with their 2 or 3 cores in the frontline. This is advantageous as long as I don't die to their supports, and I usually wont die, unless they have stuns, chain-stuns or aoe-stuns, or Kunkka, something like that. That's why I need a BKB to charge their backline, forcing a few of them to react to me defensively, and this splits up their formation.

36. I'm still spamming lycan, winning 80% of the games, now I'm at 1980 MMR, crusader III. I've found that by analyzing the replay of every game that I just finished (especially those lost games), I can usually identify mistakes made by myself, my teammates and opponents. I can then improve faster, maintaining high winrate as I climb. That is, I have to improve my gameplay as fast as I can gain MMR. Also, watching replays of high MMR spammer of a hero is very important, because I can learn some new tricks that I wouldn't know, I also get exposed to many more difficult matchups. I can also learn to think like him, especially when I try to answer why a pro does a move that would normally be different from what I would do in similar situations.

37. I notice that 23Savage (the Lycan Spammer in Pro games, 11k MMR) buys Orchid after Necro in half of its games, especially against spell casters and mobile heroes such as Ember Spirits, Storms, PA, etc. I can also try Nullifier after Abbysal Blade. Against Illusions, I can buy Radiance.

38. I'm now having 50% winrate at 1940 MMR (Crusader III). I'm still spamming Lycan. At this MMR, opponents are good enough to counterpick me. If I first pick, I'll get my desired lane, but having to play against 4 counters. If I pick in the 2nd phase, I may or may not get my desired lane, and I'm still playing against 3 counters. Lycan is further nerfed a bit in 7.28b, so playing him against counters is more difficult. But I notice that, in my recent 3 games where I'm playing against counters (not necessarily against lane counter), I won my lane hard. The problem has always been my counters getting fat enough until they start to be a real threat to me (say, allowing Luna to farm safely bottom because I didn't gank her, I ganked her offlane BS and Axe instead). Later I realized I should have ganked Luna because Luna is her win-condition.  Safelane tower is also easier to take because it is far away from the midlane, so Riki and Axe would have to TP safelane to defend, forcing TPs. I can then backoff and have them stuck in that safelane area. Riki was having a badlane, Axe still needs to farm, so they will probably jungle. I'm putting three farmers on safelane, lowering their efficiencies, while I can TP top and push their top lane knowing that they have tped bottom. They might get our offlane, but offlane is what we can sacrifice.

39. My winrate on Lycan drops, it could be due to the changes in patch 7.28b. I should play unranked and get myself familiarized with the new changes, meanwhile letting pros experimenting and creating some new Lycan metas. Then I'll just copy that successful meta.
